# Contribution Guides

1. **[Get Set up](<1. get-set-up.md>)**
2. **[Build Authentication Server Sample](<2. build-authentication-sample.md>)**
3. **[Run Authentication Server Sample](<3. run-authentication-sample.md>)**
4. **[Test Your Changes](<4. test-your-changes.md>)**
5. **[Write Unit Tests](<5. write-unit-tests.md>)**
6. **[Submit a PR](<6. submit-a-pr.md>)**
7. **[Publish Your Changes](<7. publish-your-changes.md>)**

## 3. Run Authentication Server Sample

### Prerequisites

- Register a Client and Server (Web API) applications in Azure Active Directory (AAD) as part of [On Behalf Of workflow](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-on-behalf-of-flow). See instructions below.
- Update the Server (Web API) application with information from the app registrations.

### Create an App Registration for a Server - Register a web API

1. Navigate to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) and search for **Azure Active Directory** service.

2. In the **Azure Active Directory** service page, click on **App Registrations** menu on the left, then click on **New registration** on the top bar.

3. In the **Register an application** page that opens, enter your application's registration information:

   1. In the **Name** section, enter a meaningful application name as this will be displayed name of your app, for example `auther-server-sample-webApi`.
   2. Under **Supported account types**, select **Accounts in this organizational directory only (Microsoft only - Single tenant)** option for who can use or access this application.
   3. Finally, click on **Register** to create the application. This will automaticcally open your application page once the registration is sucessful.

4. In the app's registration screen (**auther-server-sample-webApi** page), 

   1. Click on **Certificates & secrets** menu on the left to open the page where we can generate secrets and upload certificates.

      1. In the **Client secrets** section, click on **New client secret** to create a new one.
      2. Type a key description (for instance `app secret`),
      3. Select one of the available key durations (**In 1 year**, **In 2 years**, or **Never Expires**) as per your security posture.
      4. The generated key value will be displayed when you click on the **Add** button. Copy the generated value for use in later steps.

         > Note: You'll need this key later on in your code's configuration files. This key value will not be displayed again, and is not retrievable by any other means, so make sure to note it from the Azure portal before navigating to any other screen or page.

   2. Navigate to and click on **API permissions** menu item on the left where access to the APIs needed by your application will be defined

      1. Click on **Add a permission**
      2. Select **Microsoft Graph**.
      3. Select **Delegated permissions** for the type of permissions required by your app.
      4. On the permission list, under **User** group, check **User.Read** and **User.ReadWrite.All**.
      5. Now click on **Add permissions** to save your permissions.
      6. Click on **Grant admin consent** for the Microsoft Graph API call

   3. Navigate to and click on **Expose an API** menu item to the left to open the page where you can declare the parameters to expose this app as an API from which client applications can obtain [access tokens](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/access-tokens).

      1. The first thing that you need to do is to declare the unique [resource](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-auth-code-flow) URI that the clients will be using to obtain access tokens for this API. To declare a resource URI, follow the below steps:
         1. Click on `Set` next to the **Application ID URI** to generate a URI that is unique for this app.
         2. For this sample, accept the proposed Application ID URI (`api://{clientId}`) by clicking on **Save**.

      2. All APIs have to publish a minimum of one [scope](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-auth-code-flow#request-an-authorization-code) for the client app to obtain an access token successfully. To publish a scope, click on **Add a scope** button. This will open the **Add a scope** pane where you can defined the values as indicated below:

         1. For **Scope name**, use `access_as_user`.
         2. Select the **Admins and users** option for **Who can consent?**.
         3. For **Admin consent display name** type `Access Microsoft Graph API`.
         4. For **Admin consent description** type `Allows the app to access Microsoft Graph API as the signed-in user.`
         5. For **User consent display name** type `Access Microsoft Graph API`.
         6. For **User consent description** type `Allow the application to access Microsoft Graph API on your behalf.`
         7. Keep the **State** as **Enabled**.
         8. Click on **Add scope** button at the bottom to save this scope.

   4. Navigate to and click on **Manifest** menu item on the left.

      1. In the editor, set `accessTokenAcceptedVersion` property to **2**.
      2. Click on **Save** on the top bar.

### Create an App Registration for a Client - Register a web app

> Note: This client app registration will be used to manually generate the AAD token required to call AAD protected Web API as there is no client application in the sample.

1. Navigate to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) and search for **Azure Active Directory** service.

2. In the **Azure Active Directory** service page, click on **App Registrations** menu on the left, then click on **New registration** on the top bar.

3. In the **Register an application page** that opens, enter your application's registration information:

   1. In the **Name** section, enter a meaningful application name as this will be displayed name of your app, for example `auther-server-sample-webClient`.
   2. Under **Supported account types**, select **Accounts in this organizational directory only (Microsoft only - Single tenant)** option for who can use or access this application.
   3. Under **Redirect URI (optional)**, select **Web** as your platform and set the redirect URI to `http://localhost:3000`
   4. Click on **Register** to create the application. This will automaticcally open your application page once the registration is sucessful.

4. In the app's registration screen (**auther-server-sample-webClient** page), 

   1. Click on **Certificates & secrets** menu in the left to open the page where we can generate secrets and upload certificates.

      1. In the **Client secrets** section, click on **New client secret**  to create a new one.
      2. Type a key description (for instance `app secret`),
      3. Select one of the available key durations (**In 1 year**, **In 2 years**, or **Never Expires**) as per your security posture.
      4. The generated key value will be displayed when you select the **Add** button. Copy the generated value for use in later steps.

         > Note: You'll need this key later on in your code's configuration files. This key value will not be displayed again, and is not retrievable by any other means, so make sure to note it from the Azure portal before navigating to any other screen or page.

   2. Navigate to and click on **API permissions** menu item on the left to open the page where access to the APIs needed by your application will be defined.

      1. Click on **Add a permission** button
      2. Ensure that the **My APIs** tab is selected.
      3. In the list of APIs, select the API `auther-server-sample-webApi`.
      4. In the **Delegated permissions** section, select the `access_as_user` in the list. Use the search box if necessary.
      5. Click on **Add permissions** button at the bottom.

5. Go back to your `auther-server-sample-webApi` app

      1. Navigate to and click on **Expose an API**
      2. Click on **Add client applications**
      3. In the **Client ID** field, past your `auther-server-sample-webClient` application ID
      4. Check the corresponding authorized scope box
      5. Click on **Add application** at the bottom

### Create an Azure Communication Services resource

Follow [Quickstart: Create and manage Communication Services resources](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/communication-services/quickstarts/create-communication-resource?tabs=windows&pivots=platform-azp) to create an Azure Communication Services resource using Azure Portal.

### Update the `appSettings.ts` File

Before running the sample, you will need to replace the values in the `appSettings.ts`  file:

1. Replace `connectionString` and `scopes` for the Communication Services
2. Replace `clientId`, `tenantId` and `clientSecret` for the Azure Active Directory.

   > Note: Values of `clientId`, `tenantId` and `clientSecret` are all from your `auther-server-sample-webApi`

### Generate an Azure AD Token manually

Since the sample does not have a client application, you need to generate a Client Azure AD token manually to make calls to AAD protected backend Web APIs in the ACS Authentication Server sample. You will need an access token using client app registration to call the Web API. In order to get the access token manually, please follow the below steps. 

>  Note: If you are integrating a client application, then please ignore these steps as you could test directly via user signing through client application.

**Note:** The `<client app id>` is the application id of the client app registration (`auther-server-sample-webClient`) referred in the below requests. The client app in those requests generally refers the client app registration. You can get the `<tenantid>` from the app registration overview page as well. The full scope name of the server api should be used for the scope parameter in the below requests (e.g.: "api://1234-5678-abcd-efgh...../access_as_user").

1. Open your browser in private mode and visit the link below 
```
https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenantid>/oauth2/v2.0/authorize?response_type=code&client_id=<client appid>&redirect_uri=<redirect_uri from client app>&scope=<server api scope>
```

2. This will prompt you to perform authentication and consent, and it will return a code(which is short lived for 10 minutes) and session_state in the query string. Use that `code` and `session_state` in the following request to get an access token.

``` SHELL
curl --location --request POST 'https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenantid>/oauth2/v2.0/token' \
--header 'Accept: */*' \
--header 'Cache-Control: no-cache' \
--header 'Connection: keep-alive' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
--header 'Host: login.microsoftonline.com' \
--header 'accept-encoding: gzip, deflate' \
--header 'cache-control: no-cache' \
--data-urlencode 'redirect_uri=<redirect_uri from client app>' \
--data-urlencode 'client_id=<client appid>' \
--data-urlencode 'grant_type=authorization_code' \
--data-urlencode 'code=<code>' \
--data-urlencode 'session_state=<session_state>' \
--data-urlencode 'client_secret=<secret gererated in client app>' \
--data-urlencode 'scope=<server api scope>'
```
> Note: If you are facing issues running the curl command, then try importing (File -> import -> raw text, paste the curl command and continue) the curl command in [Postman](https://www.postman.com/downloads/) and running it there. 

3. Once you get the `access_token` in the response, now you can jump to the next step to start the server and call `http://localhost:3000/api/token` using the`access_token`.

### Run the App

In order to run the ACS Authentication Server sample,

1. Go to the project root directory.

   ```shell
   # navigate to the repository
   cd communication-services-authentication-hero-nodejs/
   ```

2. Run the following command.

   ```shell
   # Start the server
   npm run start
   ```

3. Make a GET request to `http://localhost:3000/api/token` with the `access_token` generated at **step 2** of **Generate an Azure AD Token manually** as a Authorization Bearer header. Verify you get a successful status code (i.e. 200).

   ```shell
   curl --location --request GET 'http://localhost:3000/api/token' --header 'Authorization: Bearer <access_token>'
   ```

   > Note: If you are facing issues running the curl command, then try importing (File -> import -> raw text, paste the curl command and continue) the curl command in [Postman](https://www.postman.com/downloads/) and running it there. 

---

- Next: **[Test Your Changes](<4. test-your-changes.md>)**
- Previous: **[Build Authentication Server Sample](<2. build-authentication-sample.md>)**
